UNICYCLER
assembly pipeline that can assemble Illumina-only read sets where it functions as a SPAde-optimizer.
It can also assemble long-read-only sets like from PacBio or Nanopore, where it runs a miniasm plus Rackon pipeline for the best possible assembly.
If you had this option, you could give it both Illumina reads and long reads, and it will create a hybrid assembly.
So if you have both of those, you should use Unicycler.
Unicycler builds an initial assembly graph from short reads using the De novo assembler and then uses a novel semi global aligner to align long reads to it

SPADES
has been around for a while now, and it's an assembler that's designed to assemble small genomes such as those from bacteria.
It uses a multi-sized brewing graph to guide assembly.

CANU
is a long read assembler which works on the third and fourth generation sequencing reads.
It supports Nanopore sequencing, have depth of coverage requirements, and improves assembly continuity.
It was designed for high noise single model sequencing, such as the PacBio, RS2, SQL, or the Oxford Nanopore, MinION.

MATASPADES
combines new algorithmic ideas with proven solutions from the SPAdes toolkit to address various challenges of metagenome assembly.
So you want to use metaSPAdes for meta-genomic assembly, Unicycler for hybrid.

PLASMIDSPADES

Plasmids are stably maintained extra chromosomal multi-genetic elements that replicate independently from the hosts chromosomes. 
algorithm and software tool for assembling plasmids from whole genome sequencing data and benchmark its performance on a diverse set of bacterial genomes.
So if you have plasmid data, try PlasmidSPAdes, or if you have a whole genome sequence that you think plasmids are included in,
I might submit the whole genome using Auto, and then also submit a separate assembly with plasmidSPAdes to see if its happening like pulling that plasmid out.

MDA
is something that you use for single cells.
This is something that SPAdes has developed and we are getting more and more of these sequences from single-cell isolates
and synthesis of specificrecipe generated for those.



how to upload files  
how to submit reads
choosing correct parametres
submitting jobs
looking at results

what happens if you need help?


coverage = at any point in the genome, generally each of those locations there will be 81 reads that will cover that.

how to interpret the reports

assembly done in patric using service X

submit the failed jobs